Module 1 - Assignment.

Definitions:

COBOL - Common Business-Oriented Language

CICS   - . Customer Information Control System (CICS) is a family of mixed language application servers that provide online transaction management and connectivity for applications on IBM mainframe systems under z/OS and z/VSE. CICS is middleware designed to support rapid, high-volume online transaction processing.

Business Application Software - these are the applications used by businesses like the Accounting Systems, Payroll, Accounting, Banking, ATM, Credit Card Transactions or Airline Reservations.

System software  -  is a software designed to provide a platform for other software, like CICS / IMS / DB2 / JES / TSO ISPF.

z/OS - is the integrated operating system that runs an  IBM system z mainframe.

Data Files & Data Bases - Data file is a collection of related records stored on a storage medium such as a hard disk or optical disc. While a database is a collection of related Data Files organized in a manner that allows access, retrieval, and use of that data.

Source File - is the .COB program, the program written in COBOL syntax, or any other programming language syntax.

IMS/TM - enables terminals, other devices, subsystems to enter transactions that initiate application programs, which access IMS DB or DB2 databases and return ...

Program design algorithm - is the english-like step by step instructions on how to solve a problem based on the Programming Specifications,

JES - JOb Entry Subsystem - subsystem of z/OS that manages the resources of a mainframe LPAR (Logical Partitions)  that are accessed by jobs run in "Batch Mode".

JCL - Job Control Language, scripting language that defines the resources and requirements needed to run a batch application.

The ZOD Remote Systems view - one of the IDE's (Integrated Development Enviranment) that alllows you to connect to the mainframe systems.


What is the difference between:
* A source file and an executable program
   (A Source File - is the COBOL program written in COBOL syntax; an executable program  is the compiled source code and linked-edited program).

*  A PDS and sequential file  (Partitioned Data Sets is a collection of sequential files, all of the same type - contained in a single file for convenient access; i.e. Cobol programs or Compiled / Linked Load Modules, while a Sequential File also known as QSAM / Flat File which typically holds large amount of business data in records that are read and written consecutively.

* a batch program and an online program,  - Batch programs are those that do not require real-time transactions; a single job runs / processes several records in a single run - i.e. Payroll or Accounting jobs; whereas online programs are those that do real-time transactions; one record is processed at a time; i.e. ATM transactions, Credit card transactions.

* Program Development, Maintenance & Production Support

Program Development - involves the creation of a brand new code starting from business requirements.

Maintenance - is the enhancement and modification of existing codes for customization or to fix an error.

Production Support -  support "production" jobs and transactions, where the corporate business is run.

